add a waypoint proxy blog (#12967)
istio/istio.io: content/en/blog/2023/waypoint-proxy-made-simple/index.md

---
title: "Istio Ambient Waypoint Proxy Made Simple"

> description: Introducing the new destination oriented waypoint proxy for simplicity and scalability.

Author: Yeah, we went back and forth a few times on this when publishing our istio ambient book, i believe destination oriented is more self explainable than other choices. i'm happy to accept changes tho if folks have more consensus on something. I do think for blogs, we have more flexibility than docs on terminologies.

publishdate: 2023-03-31
attribution: "Lin Sun (Solo.io), John Howard (Google)"
keywords: [istio,ambient,waypoint]
---

> Ambient splits Istio’s functionality into two distinct layers, secure overlay layer and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Ambient splits Istio’s functionality into two distinct layers, a secure overlay layer and a
```

Layer 7 processing layer. The waypoint proxy is an optional component that is Envoy-based
and handles L7 processing for workloads it manages. Since the [initial ambient launch](/blog/2022/introducing-ambient-mesh/) in 2022,
we have made significant changes to simplify waypoint configuration, debuggability and scalability.

> ## Architecture of waypoint

Reviewer: My thought is we want to use waypoint proxy, and not just waypoint.
```suggestion
## Architecture of waypoint proxies
```
or maybe Waypoint proxy architecture

Similar to sidecar, the waypoint proxy is also Envoy-based and is dynamically configured by Istio

> to serve your applications configuration. What is unique about the waypoint is that it runs either

Reviewer: ```suggestion
to serve your applications configuration. What is unique about the waypoint proxy is that it runs either
```

> per-namespace (default) or per-service account. By running outside of the application pod, waypoint proxy

Reviewer: ```suggestion
per-namespace (default) or per-service account. By running outside of the application pod, a waypoint proxy
```

can install, upgrade, and scale independently from the application, as well as reduce operational costs.

{{< image width="100%"
    link="waypoint-architecture.png"
    caption="Waypoint architecture"
    >}}

> Waypoint proxies are deployed declaratively using Kubernetes Gateway resources, or the helpful `istioctl` command:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Waypoint proxies are deployed declaratively using Kubernetes Gateway resources or the helpful `istioctl` command:
```

{{< text bash >}}

> $ istioctl x waypoint generate

Reviewer: We typically use experimental instead of x in the docs.

> $ istioctl x waypoint generate

Author: ```suggestion
$ istioctl experimental waypoint generate
```

| Config Distribution         |         Namespace 1              |       Namespace 2                |     Total     |
| --------------------------- | -------------------------------- | -------------------------------- | ------------- |
| Sidecars                    | 25 configurations * 250 sidecars | 25 configurations * 250 sidecars |    12500      |
| Waypoints                   | 25 configurations * 2 waypoints  | 25 configurations * 2 waypoints  |     100       |
| Waypoints / Sidecars        |              0.8%                |               0.8%               |      0.8%     |

While we use namespace scoped waypoint proxies to illustrate the simplification above, the simplification is similar
when you apply it to service account waypoint proxies.

This reduced configuration means lower resource usage (CPU, RAM, and network bandwidth) for both the
control plane and data plane. While users today can see similar improvements with careful usage of

> `exportTo` in your Istio networking resources or the [Sidecar](/docs/reference/config/networking/sidecar/) API,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`exportTo` in their Istio networking resources or of the [Sidecar](/docs/reference/config/networking/sidecar/) API,
```

in ambient mode this is no longer required, making scaling a breeze.

## What if my destination doesn’t have a waypoint proxy?

> The design of ambient mode centers around the assumption that most configuration is best implemented by the service producer, rather than the service consumer. However, this isn't always the case - sometimes we need to configure traffic management for destinations we don't control. A common example of this would be connecting to an external service with improved resilience to handle occasional connection issues (e.g. to add a timeout for calls to `example.com`).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The design of ambient mode centers around the assumption that most configuration is best implemented by the service producer, rather than the service consumer. However, this isn't always the case - sometimes we need to configure traffic management for destinations we don't control. A common example of this would be connecting to an external service with improved resilience to handle occasional connection issues (e.g., to add a timeout for calls to `example.com`).
```

This is an area under active development in the community, where we design how traffic can be routed to your egress gateway and how you can configure the egress gateway with your desired policies. Look out for future blog posts in this area!

## A deep-dive of waypoint configuration

> Assuming you have followed the [ambient get started guide](http://preliminary.istio.io/latest/docs/ops/ambient/getting-started/) till the [control traffic section](http://preliminary.istio.io/latest/docs/ops/ambient/getting-started/#control), you have deployed a waypoint proxy for the bookinfo-reviews service account to direct 90% traffic to reviews v1 and 10% traffic to reviews v2.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Assuming you have followed the [ambient get started guide](http://preliminary.istio.io/latest/docs/ops/ambient/getting-started/) up to and including the [control traffic section](http://preliminary.istio.io/latest/docs/ops/ambient/getting-started/#control), you have deployed a waypoint proxy for the bookinfo-reviews service account to direct 90% traffic to reviews v1 and 10% traffic to reviews v2.
```

> Review the listeners for `reviews` waypoint proxy:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Use `istioctl` to retrieve the listeners for the `reviews` waypoint proxy:
```

{{< text bash >}}

> $ istioctl pc l deploy/bookinfo-reviews-istio-waypoint --waypoint

Reviewer: You expanded the commands out in the later text and should here as well, proxy-config listener.

> $ istioctl pc l deploy/bookinfo-reviews-istio-waypoint --waypoint

Author: ```suggestion
$ istioctl proxy-config listener deploy/bookinfo-reviews-istio-waypoint --waypoint
```

envoy://main_internal direct-tcp                                            ip=10.244.2.11 -> ANY                         Cluster: encap
envoy://main_internal direct-http                                           ip=10.244.2.11 -> application-protocol='h2c'  Cluster: encap
envoy://main_internal direct-http                                           ip=10.244.2.11 -> application-protocol='http/1.1' Cluster: encap
envoy://main_internal direct-http                                           ip=10.244.2.14 -> application-protocol='http/1.1' Cluster: encap
envoy://main_internal direct-http                                           ip=10.244.2.14 -> application-protocol='h2c'  Cluster: encap
envoy://main_internal direct-http                                           ip=10.244.1.6 -> application-protocol='h2c'   Cluster: encap
envoy://main_internal direct-http                                           ip=10.244.1.6 -> application-protocol='http/1.1'  Cluster: encap
envoy://connect_terminate default                                               ALL                                           Inline Route:
{{< /text >}}

> For requests arriving on port `15008`, which by default is Istio’s inbound HBONE port, the waypoint proxy terminates the HBONE connection and forwards the request to the `main_internal` to enforce any workload policies such as AuthorizationPolicy. If you are not familiar with the [internal listener](https://www.envoyproxy.io/docs/envoy/latest/configuration/other_features/internal_listener), it is an Envoy listener that accepts user space connections without using the system network API. The `--waypoint` flag added to the command earlier shows the details of the `main_internal` listeners, their filter chains, chain matches, and destinations.

Reviewer 3: I have reviewed this section a few times and I find myself getting a bit lost trying to make the connection between the inbound request on 15008 (HBONE) and the `inbound-vip|9080||reviews.default.svc.cluster.local-http` internal listener. From my understanding, a request `(dst: $REVIEWS_SVC_IP:$HBONE_PORT)` arrives at the waypoint's `connect_terminate` listener. This listener terminates the HBONE connection and routes the request, now using `$REVIEWS_SVC_PORT` as the dest port, to the `main_internal` cluster. The `main_internal` cluster is configured to route the request to the `main_internal` listener. The `main_internal` listener routes the request to the reviews v1/v2 service subsets based on the configured weight. I'm not sure if we want to provide this level of detail but I feel like we're missing a few pieces of information to help connect the dots.

Author: I think you are correct, it is not my intention to go that level of details tho.  Main point is to show the configurations (listeners/clusters/routes etc) are trimmed for waypoints automatically.

> For requests arriving on port `15008`, which by default is Istio’s inbound HBONE port, the waypoint proxy terminates the HBONE connection and forwards the request to the `main_internal` to enforce any workload policies such as AuthorizationPolicy. If you are not familiar with the [internal listener](https://www.envoyproxy.io/docs/envoy/latest/configuration/other_features/internal_listener), it is an Envoy listener that accepts user space connections without using the system network API. The `--waypoint` flag added to the command earlier shows the details of the `main_internal` listeners, their filter chains, chain matches, and destinations.

Author: ```suggestion
For requests arriving on port `15008`, which by default is Istio’s inbound HBONE port, the waypoint proxy terminates the HBONE connection and forwards the request to the `main_internal` listener to enforce any workload policies such as AuthorizationPolicy. If you are not familiar with the [internal listener](https://www.envoyproxy.io/docs/envoy/latest/configuration/other_features/internal_listener), it is an Envoy listener that accepts user space connections without using the system network API. The `--waypoint` flag added to the command earlier shows the details of the `main_internal` listener, its filter chains, chain matches, and destinations.
```

> For requests arriving on port `15008`, which by default is Istio’s inbound HBONE port, the waypoint proxy terminates the HBONE connection and forwards the request to the `main_internal` to enforce any workload policies such as AuthorizationPolicy. If you are not familiar with the [internal listener](https://www.envoyproxy.io/docs/envoy/latest/configuration/other_features/internal_listener), it is an Envoy listener that accepts user space connections without using the system network API. The `--waypoint` flag added to the command earlier shows the details of the `main_internal` listeners, their filter chains, chain matches, and destinations.

Author: updated

> For requests arriving on port `15008`, which by default is Istio’s inbound HBONE port, the waypoint proxy terminates the HBONE connection and forwards the request to the `main_internal` listener to enforce any workload policies such as AuthorizationPolicy. If you are not familiar with the [internal listener](https://www.envoyproxy.io/docs/envoy/latest/configuration/other_features/internal_listener), it is an Envoy listener that accepts user space connections without using the system network API. The `--waypoint` flag added to the command earlier shows the details of the `main_internal` listener, its filter chains, chain matches, and destinations.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For requests arriving on port `15008`, which by default is Istio’s inbound {{< gloss >}}HBONE{{< /gloss >}} port, the waypoint proxy terminates the HBONE connection and forwards the request to the `main_internal` listener to enforce any workload policies such as AuthorizationPolicy. If you are not familiar with [internal listeners](https://www.envoyproxy.io/docs/envoy/latest/configuration/other_features/internal_listener), they are Envoy listeners that accepts user space connections without using the system network API. The `--waypoint` flag added to the `istioctl proxy-config` command, above, instructs it to show the details of the `main_internal` listener, its filter chains, chain matches, and destinations.
```

> Note `10.96.104.108` is the reviews’ service VIP and `10.244.x.x` are the `reviews`’ v1/v2/v3 pod IPs, which you can view your cluster’s using the `kubectl get svc,pod -o wide` command. For plain text or HBONE terminated inbound traffic, it will be matched on the service VIP and port 9080 for reviews or by pod IP address and application protocol (either `ANY` or `h2c` or `http/1.1`).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note `10.96.104.108` is the reviews’ service VIP and `10.244.x.x` are the `reviews`’ v1/v2/v3 pod IPs, which you can view for your cluster using the `kubectl get svc,pod -o wide` command. For plain text or HBONE terminated inbound traffic, it will be matched on the service VIP and port 9080 for reviews or by pod IP address and application protocol (either `ANY` or `h2c` or `http/1.1`).
```

> Note `10.96.104.108` is the reviews’ service VIP and `10.244.x.x` are the `reviews`’ v1/v2/v3 pod IPs, which you can view for your cluster using the `kubectl get svc,pod -o wide` command. For plain text or HBONE terminated inbound traffic, it will be matched on the service VIP and port 9080 for reviews or by pod IP address and application protocol (either `ANY` or `h2c` or `http/1.1`).

Author: Can you suggest changes? I don't understand what is your suggestion.

> Note `10.96.104.108` is the reviews’ service VIP and `10.244.x.x` are the `reviews`’ v1/v2/v3 pod IPs, which you can view for your cluster using the `kubectl get svc,pod -o wide` command. For plain text or HBONE terminated inbound traffic, it will be matched on the service VIP and port 9080 for reviews or by pod IP address and application protocol (either `ANY` or `h2c` or `http/1.1`).

Reviewer 2: reviews' is correct.

> Note `10.96.104.108` is the reviews’ service VIP and `10.244.x.x` are the `reviews`’ v1/v2/v3 pod IPs, which you can view for your cluster using the `kubectl get svc,pod -o wide` command. For plain text or HBONE terminated inbound traffic, it will be matched on the service VIP and port 9080 for reviews or by pod IP address and application protocol (either `ANY` or `h2c` or `http/1.1`).

Reviewer: I believe the comment here if it is review or reviews and then use the appropriate '. And you could maybe expand the question to if this is the reviews' `service VIP` or is it the review service's `VIP`.

> Note `10.96.104.108` is the reviews’ service VIP and `10.244.x.x` are the `reviews`’ v1/v2/v3 pod IPs, which you can view for your cluster using the `kubectl get svc,pod -o wide` command. For plain text or HBONE terminated inbound traffic, it will be matched on the service VIP and port 9080 for reviews or by pod IP address and application protocol (either `ANY` or `h2c` or `http/1.1`).

Reviewer: One thing I would say is you backtick reviews later in the sentence and should do that earlier as well. Assuming `service VIP and `pod IP` are the object:
```suggestion
Note `10.96.104.108` is the `reviews`’ service VIP and `10.244.x.x` are the `reviews`’ v1/v2/v3 pod IPs, which you can view for your cluster using the `kubectl get svc,pod -o wide` command. For plain text or HBONE terminated inbound traffic, it will be matched on the service VIP and port 9080 for `reviews` or by pod IP address and application protocol (either `ANY` or `h2c` or `http/1.1`).
```

> Note `10.96.104.108` is the reviews’ service VIP and `10.244.x.x` are the `reviews`’ v1/v2/v3 pod IPs, which you can view for your cluster using the `kubectl get svc,pod -o wide` command. For plain text or HBONE terminated inbound traffic, it will be matched on the service VIP and port 9080 for reviews or by pod IP address and application protocol (either `ANY` or `h2c` or `http/1.1`).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Note: `10.96.104.108` is the reviews’ service VIP and `10.244.x.x` are the reviews’ v1/v2/v3 pod IPs, which you can view for your cluster using the `kubectl get svc,pod -o wide` command. For plain text or HBONE terminated inbound traffic, it will be matched on the service VIP and port 9080 for reviews or by pod IP address and application protocol (either `ANY`, `h2c`, or `http/1.1`).
```

Author: Tried to address this manually since commit button is disabled

> Note `10.96.104.108` is the reviews' service VIP and `10.244.x.x` are the reviews v1/v2/v3 pod IPs, which you can view for your cluster using the `kubectl get svc,pod -o wide` command. For plain text or HBONE terminated inbound traffic, it will be matched on the service VIP and port 9080 for reviews or by pod IP address and application protocol (either `ANY`, `h2c`, or `http/1.1`).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note `10.96.104.108` is the reviews' service VIP and `10.244.x.x` are the reviews' v1/v2/v3 pod IPs, which you can view for your cluster using the `kubectl get svc,pod -o wide` command. For plain text or HBONE terminated inbound traffic, it will be matched on the service VIP and port 9080 for reviews or by pod IP address and application protocol (either `ANY`, `h2c`, or `http/1.1`).
```

> Check out the clusters for `reviews` waypoint proxy, you get the `main_internal` cluster along with a few inbound clusters. Other than the clusters for infrastructure, the only Envoy clusters created are for services and pods running in the same service account. No clusters are created for services or pods running elsewhere.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Checking out the clusters for the `reviews` waypoint proxy, you get the `main_internal` cluster along with a few inbound clusters. Other than the clusters for infrastructure, the only Envoy clusters created are for services and pods running in the same service account. No clusters are created for services or pods running elsewhere.
```

{{< text bash >}}
$ istioctl proxy-config clusters deploy/bookinfo-reviews-istio-waypoint
SERVICE FQDN                         PORT SUBSET  DIRECTION   TYPE         DESTINATION RULE
agent                                -    -       -           STATIC
connect_originate                    -    -       -           ORIGINAL_DST
encap                                -    -       -           STATIC
kubernetes.default.svc.cluster.local 443  tcp     inbound-vip EDS
main_internal                        -    -       -           STATIC
prometheus_stats                     -    -       -           STATIC
reviews.default.svc.cluster.local    9080 http    inbound-vip EDS
reviews.default.svc.cluster.local    9080 http/v1 inbound-vip EDS
reviews.default.svc.cluster.local    9080 http/v2 inbound-vip EDS
reviews.default.svc.cluster.local    9080 http/v3 inbound-vip EDS
sds-grpc                             -    -       -           STATIC
xds-grpc                             -    -       -           STATIC
zipkin                               -    -       -           STRICT_DNS
{{< /text >}}

> Note the list for `outbound` clusters is empty, which you can confirm using `istioctl proxy-config c deploy/bookinfo-reviews-istio-waypoint --direction outbound`! What is nice is that you didn’t configure any `exportTo` on other bookinfo services (for example, `productpage` or `ratings` services). In other words, the `reviews` waypoint isn’t made aware of any unnecessary clusters, without any extra manual configuration from you.

Reviewer: c -> cluster

> Note the list for `outbound` clusters is empty, which you can confirm using `istioctl proxy-config c deploy/bookinfo-reviews-istio-waypoint --direction outbound`! What is nice is that you didn’t configure any `exportTo` on other bookinfo services (for example, `productpage` or `ratings` services). In other words, the `reviews` waypoint isn’t made aware of any unnecessary clusters, without any extra manual configuration from you.

Author: ```suggestion
Note the list for `outbound` clusters is empty, which you can confirm using `istioctl proxy-config cluster deploy/bookinfo-reviews-istio-waypoint --direction outbound`! What is nice is that you didn’t configure any `exportTo` on other bookinfo services (for example, `productpage` or `ratings` services). In other words, the `reviews` waypoint isn’t made aware of any unnecessary clusters, without any extra manual configuration from you.
```

> Note the list for `outbound` clusters is empty, which you can confirm using `istioctl proxy-config cluster deploy/bookinfo-reviews-istio-waypoint --direction outbound`! What is nice is that you didn’t configure any `exportTo` on other bookinfo services (for example, `productpage` or `ratings` services). In other words, the `reviews` waypoint isn’t made aware of any unnecessary clusters, without any extra manual configuration from you.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Note that there are no `outbound` clusters in the list, which you can confirm using `istioctl proxy-config cluster deploy/bookinfo-reviews-istio-waypoint --direction outbound`! What's nice is that you didn’t need to configure `exportTo` on any other bookinfo services (for example, the `productpage` or `ratings` services). In other words, the `reviews` waypoint is not made aware of any unnecessary clusters, without any extra manual configuration from you.
```

> Display the list routes for `reviews` waypoint proxy:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Display the list of routes for the `reviews` waypoint proxy:
```

{{< text bash >}}
$ istioctl proxy-config routes deploy/bookinfo-reviews-istio-waypoint
NAME                                                    DOMAINS MATCH              VIRTUAL SERVICE
encap                                                   *       /*
inbound-vip|9080|http|reviews.default.svc.cluster.local *       /*                 reviews.default
default
{{< /text >}}

> If you recall, you didn’t configure any Sidecar resources or `exportTo` configuration on your Istio networking resources. You deployed the `bookinfo-productpage` route earlier to configure Istio ingress gateway to route to `productpage` but the `reviews` waypoint isn’t made aware of any irrelevant routes.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Recall that you didn’t configure any Sidecar resources or `exportTo` configuration on your Istio networking resources. You did, however, deploy the `bookinfo-productpage` route, earlier, to configure an ingress gateway to route to `productpage` but the `reviews` waypoint has not been made aware of any such irrelevant routes.
```

> Recall that you didn’t configure any Sidecar resources or `exportTo` configuration on your Istio networking resources. You did, however, deploy the `bookinfo-productpage` route, earlier, to configure an ingress gateway to route to `productpage` but the `reviews` waypoint has not been made aware of any such irrelevant routes.

Reviewer: Maybe remove the `,earlier,`:
```suggestion
Recall that you didn’t configure any Sidecar resources or `exportTo` configuration on your Istio networking resources. You did, however, deploy the `bookinfo-productpage` route to configure an ingress gateway to route to `productpage` but the `reviews` waypoint has not been made aware of any such irrelevant routes.
```

> Display the detailed information for the `inbound-vip|9080|http|reviews.default.svc.cluster.local` route, you’ll see the weighted based routing configuration to direct 90% traffic to `reviews` v1 and 10% traffic to `reviews` v2, along with some of Istio’s default retry and timeout configurations. This confirms the traffic and resiliency policies are shifted from source to destination oriented waypoint discussed earlier.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Displaying the detailed information for the `inbound-vip|9080|http|reviews.default.svc.cluster.local` route, you’ll see the weighted based routing configuration to direct 90% of the traffic to `reviews` v1 and 10% of the traffic to `reviews` v2, along with some of Istio’s default retry and timeout configurations. This confirms the traffic and resiliency policies are shifted from source to destination oriented waypoint discussed earlier.
```

> Display the detailed information for the `inbound-vip|9080|http|reviews.default.svc.cluster.local` route, you’ll see the weighted based routing configuration to direct 90% traffic to `reviews` v1 and 10% traffic to `reviews` v2, along with some of Istio’s default retry and timeout configurations. This confirms the traffic and resiliency policies are shifted from source to destination oriented waypoint discussed earlier.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Display the detailed information for the `inbound-vip|9080|http|reviews.default.svc.cluster.local` route, you’ll see the weighted based routing configuration to direct 90% traffic to `reviews` v1 and 10% traffic to `reviews` v2, along with some of Istio’s default retry and timeout configurations. This confirms the traffic and resiliency policies are shifted from the source to the destination oriented waypoint as discussed earlier.
```
maybe doesn't need the as

Author: Looks like i can't apply this...commit button is disabled.

> Displaying the detailed information for the `inbound-vip|9080|http|reviews.default.svc.cluster.local` route, you’ll see the weighted based routing configuration to direct 90% of the traffic to `reviews` v1 and 10% of the traffic to `reviews` v2, along with some of Istio’s default retry and timeout configurations. This confirms the traffic and resiliency policies are shifted from source to destination oriented waypoint discussed earlier.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Displaying the detailed information for the `inbound-vip|9080|http|reviews.default.svc.cluster.local` route, you’ll see the weight-based routing configuration directing 90% of the traffic to `reviews` v1 and 10% of the traffic to `reviews` v2, along with some of Istio’s default retry and timeout configurations. This confirms the traffic and resiliency policies are shifted from the source to destination oriented waypoint as discussed earlier.
```

> Displaying the detailed information for the `inbound-vip|9080|http|reviews.default.svc.cluster.local` route, you’ll see the weighted based routing configuration to direct 90% of the traffic to `reviews` v1 and 10% of the traffic to `reviews` v2, along with some of Istio’s default retry and timeout configurations. This confirms the traffic and resiliency policies are shifted from source to destination oriented waypoint discussed earlier.

Author: checked that this is already applied

envoy://connect_originate/                          HEALTHY OK            encap
envoy://connect_originate/10.244.1.6:9080           HEALTHY OK            inbound-vip|9080|http/v2|reviews.default.svc.cluster.local
envoy://connect_originate/10.244.1.6:9080           HEALTHY OK            inbound-vip|9080|http|reviews.default.svc.cluster.local
envoy://connect_originate/10.244.2.11:9080          HEALTHY OK            inbound-vip|9080|http/v1|reviews.default.svc.cluster.local
envoy://connect_originate/10.244.2.11:9080          HEALTHY OK            inbound-vip|9080|http|reviews.default.svc.cluster.local
envoy://connect_originate/10.244.2.14:9080          HEALTHY OK            inbound-vip|9080|http/v3|reviews.default.svc.cluster.local
envoy://connect_originate/10.244.2.14:9080          HEALTHY OK            inbound-vip|9080|http|reviews.default.svc.cluster.local
envoy://main_internal/                              HEALTHY OK            main_internal
unix://./etc/istio/proxy/XDS                        HEALTHY OK            xds-grpc
unix://./var/run/secrets/workload-spiffe-uds/socket HEALTHY OK            sds-grpc
{{< /text >}}

> Note you don’t get any endpoints related to any other services other than reviews, even though you have a few other services in the `default` and `istio-system` namespace.

Reviewer 3: I feel like we're missing a final step where the waypoint routes the request to reviews by encap'ing in HBONE.

Author: Yep, i didn't mention it because it is not directly related to the blog topic (which is waypoint config made simpler) - there is nothing for me to highlight as part of trimmed config for encap hbone.

> Note you don’t get any endpoints related to any other services other than reviews, even though you have a few other services in the `default` and `istio-system` namespace.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Note that you don’t get any endpoints related to any services other than reviews, even though you have a few other services in the `default` and `istio-system` namespace.
```

## Wrapping up

> We are very excited about the waypoint simplification by focusing on destination oriented waypoint proxies. This is another significant step towards simplifying Istio’s usability, scalability and debuggability which are top priorities on Istio’s roadmap. Follow our [getting started guide](http://preliminary.istio.io/latest/docs/ops/ambient/getting-started/) to try the ambient pre-alpha build today and experience the simplified waypoint proxy!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We are very excited about the waypoint simplification by focusing on destination oriented waypoint proxies. This is another significant step towards simplifying Istio’s usability, scalability and debuggability which are top priorities on Istio’s roadmap. Follow our [getting started guide](http://preliminary.istio.io/latest/docs/ops/ambient/getting-started/) to try the ambient alpha build today and experience the simplified waypoint proxy!
```

> We are very excited about the waypoint simplification by focusing on destination oriented waypoint proxies. This is another significant step towards simplifying Istio’s usability, scalability and debuggability which are top priorities on Istio’s roadmap. Follow our [getting started guide](http://preliminary.istio.io/latest/docs/ops/ambient/getting-started/) to try the ambient alpha build today and experience the simplified waypoint proxy!

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We are very excited about the waypoint simplification focusing on destination oriented waypoint proxies. This is another significant step towards simplifying Istio’s usability, scalability and debuggability which are top priorities on Istio’s roadmap. Follow our [getting started guide](http://preliminary.istio.io/latest/docs/ops/ambient/getting-started/) to try the ambient alpha build today and experience the simplified waypoint proxy!
```
